SORA Oracles Proposal md (#33)
sora-xor/rfps: open_rfps/SORA Oracle Proposal.md

August 2022

**Proposal Overview**

Implementation of oracles to provide relevant feeds of events about the offline world for on-chain usage such as TBC pricing, tokens linked to off-chain factors.

**Proposal Goals (list with explanations where possible)**

Build contracts about outside world data feeds (DEX, decentralized insurance). 
Feeds could be dedicated to the market data, weather info (humidity, temperature, pressure), seismic data, etc. 
The oracles should give relevant feeds of relatively small events about the offline world for on-chain usage such as TBC pricing, tokens linked to off-chain factors.

**Scope of Work (describe the scope of work in as much detail as possible)**

Feeds differ from each other by:

	+ provider

	+ event members (length of the event “data tuple“)

	+ update period

	+ aggregation strategy

	+ public / with authorization. Fetching data for public feeds is mandatory for the oracles. Fetching data for limited-access feeds (with website authorization, )

Every owner of the Sora node is able to become the oracle once they have enough money for staking.
Every oracle should use their controller account to sign the observations. 

> Network validator approach can be precisely followedand account should own a controller account (for on-chain configuration) and stash account (for rewards).

Reviewer: followedand

> Network validator approach can be precisely followedand account should own a controller account (for on-chain configuration) and stash account (for rewards).

Author: ```suggestion
Network validator approach can be precisely followed and the account should own a controller account (for on-chain configuration) and stash account (for rewards).
```
